# Developmental-Blog
## Week 1: Introduction to Web Development
#### To start of the semester, I began learnin the difference between front-end and back-end developers. Some examples are learning the use of HTML,CSS and JavaScript which are the 3 core pillars of frontend development. To go slightly more in depth, I have learnt how they can change how the website look and the website interactivity uniquely. To end of my lesson I have learnt the structure of HTML documents, some elements such as heading, paragraph, image and lists tags and many more! With all this I created my first webpage which shows a guide on how to make a banana smoothie as well as making a powerpoint slide on how to make a website good.
## Week 2: Semantics & CSS
#### With this week's lesson I have learnt the semantics of HTML and some basic CSS. Semantics in HTML allows us to know whats the use of each part of the webpage as they all represent a meaning. This will make our code more tidy and organised as well as having an easier accessibility. Some examples of semantic tags are header, nav, article, section tags along with many other more! For CSS I have learnt the CSS rule and how to implement CSS in our HTML file using either inline style, style element or external style sheet. I have learnt how to use colors and basic CSS selectors such as ID and Class attributes. Moreover I have learnt how to import fonts from Google Fonts and how to use them as well as the box model! I did 5 CAs this week which greatly enhanced on my knowledge on what I have learnt from this week such as Semantics in HTML, applying basic CSS, using basic CSS selectors and lasly importing Google Fonts.
## Week 3: Forms & Advance CSS Layouts
#### As I progress into week 3, the lesson gets more fast-paced and challenging. The first thing I have learnt is how to use forms in HTML using the form, input and label tag as well as validations. Moreover, I have learnt many input fields such as email, telephone, number, time, password and many more! I have also learnt how the descendant selector, grouping selector, inheritance, specifity and cascade works in CSS and how to implement it. Moving on, I have also learnt media queries which affects how the website would look on different screen sizes. Last but not least I have learnt positioning, flexbox and wireframes. For positioning, I have learnt the different types such as relative, absolute, fixed and sticky which are all useful in their unique way. For flexbox, I have greatly enjoyed the activities offered which are the flexbox froggies and flexbox defense, which were great as I had fun and learned something new at the same time. Lastly for wireframes, I have a brief understanding of its uses and how to make them. For this week, I was required to complete a tutorial CA which tested on everything that I have learnt and I was given a chance to try out the optional CA which makes use of the understanding of wireframes.
## Week 4: Responsive Images and Spilt UI
#### For this week's lesson, I felt that it was much simpler compared to week 3 which was slightly content heavy for one week. In this week's lesson, I have started off with responsive images like specifying max-width to 100% and using backgroung-image: cover. I did 2 CAs which practices the use of responsive design, flexboxes as well as CSS. Additionally, I have learnt the basics of Git and how to use it to deploy and save my work. Lastly, I have learnt some markdown syntax.
## Week 5: Javascript Basics
#### As this week is whitespace week, it is a asynchronous lesson and I have to do self-learning. For this week's lesson I get to learn the basics of JavaScript which I have learnt Objects, Classes, Variables, Data types, DOM, Arrays, Function, Methods and lastly Events. I have completed all the lesson and exercises which covered everything that I have mentioned above. I am also required to hand in my mid-point checkpoint for my ID Assignment 1.

## Week 6: Javascript, Objects and DOM
#### This week's work is pretty lengthy and took some of my time. To start off I did a recap on week 5 on the basics such as data types, logical operators, loops and arrays and functions. Next, is objects where I learnt how to use literal and function based objects and how to access the objects as well as creating constructors. I have also learnt how to declare variables with let, var and const. Lastly, is DOM which stands for Document Object Model. I have learnt how to access elements including transversal and how to modify attributes. To wrap up everything, I did 3 CAs each CA covering each topic I have learnt which includes logical operators, objects and DOM mostly with the help of loops. 
## Week 7: DOM, Events & Local Storage
## Week 8: Fetch & jQuery, Bootstrap
## Week 12: RestDB
## Week 13: Best Practices and Common Mistakes
## Week 14: Lottie Animation


